We start by defining a pulse as a series of consecutive samples in a discrete wave with the same signal. More formally, let $ W[i] \in \mathbb{R} \forall i \in \mathbb{N}_0, i < n \in \mathbb{N}_0 $ be a real, discrete and finite signal indexed, without loss of generality, over a subset of the natural numbers. This definition relates closely to the concept of an array or vector in programming languages, and is used in the interest of simplicity. A pulse $ P[j], j \in \mathbb{N}_0 $ in $ W $ can then be defined as a sequence of samples indexed by $ i $ such that $ \sign(W[a-1]) \ne \sign(W[a]) = \sign(W[a+1]) = \dots = \sign(W[b-1]) = \sign(W[b]) \ne \sign(W[b+1]) \forall a \le i \le b | a,b \in \mathbb{N}_0 $; that is to say, a cluster of samples between the change of sign. For a continuous function, that would correspond to the pieces between roots, and would be equal to half the cycle of a sinusoid.

It is useful now to introduce the concept of a frontier as the set of points $ (i, W[i]) $ that lie on the smooth, continuous envelope of the signal forming, in this way, a discrete version of the envelope itself. Because we are interested in a smooth function over the whole domain of the wave, we can assume that, in the context of a pulse, this function will be very close to a straight line and, thus, won't touch any point inside the convex hull defined by the pulse. By the same token, as the change in amplitude from one pulse to the next is motivated by changes in the envelope, one can safely assume that $ \max(P[j]) \approx \max(P[j]+1) $ and approximate the convex hull of a pulse with the triangle defined by the points where it crosses the horizontal axis and it's interior point of max amplitude. In practice, this will allow a considerable dimension reduction.